Update main README (#7)
COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6: README.md

# MOM6-CICE6-datm-drof configurations for ACCESS-OM3

This repository contains several
[ACCESS-OM3](https://github.com/COSIMA/access-om3) configurations using the following components:

> - [MOM6](https://github.com/mom-ocean/MOM6)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MOM6](https://github.com/NCAR/MOM6)
```

Author: Here the idea was to point to the "official" project repo, not the fork being used by OM3. Happy to change it if you think it is a possible source of confusion.

Reviewer: I don't feel strongly at all, but I don't see the harm in pointing to the actual forks being used

Reviewer 2: Or since this is a more user-oriented repo, should we link to the documentation rather than sources?

Author: Yes, documentation is actually better. What I really wanted was some sort of "official" project web page, but that does not seem to exist (except for the https://mom-ocean.github.io/ page, but that actually is more about MOM5 than MOM6).

I changed the MOM6, DATM and DROF links to point to the corresponding docs. Unfortunately I couldn't find any docs for CICE besides what's on their GitHub repo, so unless someone has a better idea,  I'll leave that one as it is.

> - [CICE](https://github.com/CICE-Consortium/CICE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CICE](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CICE)
```

Reviewer 2: Should the link be CICE6?

Author: It seems that on the CICE repo, developers always refer to the model as CICE, not CICE6, so I tried to respect that choice. This is in contrast to MOM6.

- [datm](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CDEPS) data model
- [drof](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CDEPS) data model

> All the configuration use the [payu](https://github.com/payu-org/payu) workflow management tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the configurations use the [payu](https://github.com/payu-org/payu) workflow management tool.
```

## Repository structure

Each configuration is stored as a git branch. Most of the branches are named
according to the following naming scheme:

`{nominal_resolution}deg_{forcing_data}_{forcing_method}`

Additional required information, like if the configuration includes
biogeochemistry, is appended to the name.

Currently the following configurations are available:

- [`1deg_jra55do_ryf`](https://github.com/COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6/tree/1deg_jra55do_ryf)

Note that the [`main`](https://github.com/COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6/tree/main) branch
does not store any configuration, only some documentation.

This repository also contains the following configurations that are only used
for testing ACCESS-OM3:

- [`gmom_jra`](https://github.com/COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6/tree/gmom_jra):
  configuration based on the `GMOM_JRA` [CESM](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CMEPS/)
  compset.

These configurations should **not** be used for production runs.

## Setting up an experiment

> The first thing to do is to clone this repository. Althought it is possible to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing to do is to clone this repository. Although it is possible to
```

directly clone the repository from the [COSIMA
organization](https://github.com/COSIMA/), it is better to use a fork
instead. This will allow you to push any changes you make to the configuration,

> as well as the experiment runlog, to your fork on GitHub. Detailed instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as use the Payu experiment run log to keep track of your experiments in your fork on GitHub. Detailed instructions
```

> about how the setup a fork can be found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
about how to set up a fork can be found
```

[here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo).

Once you have set up your fork, we recommend cloning to a directory with an
unique name that reflects what you wish to run. This could simply be the name of
the configuration you plan to run, but the more detailed the name is, the less
likely a namespace clash will happen.

Finally, one needs to checkout the branch corresponding to the desired
configuration.

Here is an step-by-step example of how to set up a `1deg_jra55do_ryf`

> experiment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
experiment after setting up your fork:
```

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:<username>/MOM6-CICE6.git 1deg_jra55do_ryf
$ cd 1deg_jra55do_ryf
$ git checkout 1deg_jra55do_ryf
```

Here `<username>` should be your GitHub user name.

> By default, the run log is turned off, but you probably want to turn this on. To

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Payu run log is turned off, but you probably want to turn this on. To
```

# MOM6-CICE6-datm-drof configurations for ACCESS-OM3

This repository contains several
[ACCESS-OM3](https://github.com/COSIMA/access-om3) configurations using the following components:

> - [MOM6](https://github.com/mom-ocean/MOM6)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [MOM6](https://github.com/mom-ocean/MOM6) ocean model
```

> - [CICE](https://github.com/CICE-Consortium/CICE)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [CICE](https://github.com/CICE-Consortium/CICE) sea ice model
```

> - [datm](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CDEPS) data model
> - [drof](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CDEPS) data model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DATM](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CDEPS) data model
- [DROF](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CDEPS) data model
```

Reviewer 2: or maybe link to docs?
https://escomp.github.io/CDEPS/versions/master/html/datm.html
https://escomp.github.io/CDEPS/versions/master/html/drof.html

Reviewer 2: or the ACCESS-OM3 wiki, so we can centralise our user documentation
https://github.com/COSIMA/access-om3/wiki/Forcing-data-models

> All the configurations use the [payu](https://github.com/payu-org/payu) workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the configurations use the [payu](https://payu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) workflow
```

management tool.

## Repository structure

Each configuration is stored as a git branch. Most of the branches are named
according to the following naming scheme:

`{nominal_resolution}deg_{forcing_data}_{forcing_method}`

Additional required information, like if the configuration includes
biogeochemistry, is appended to the name.

Currently the following configurations are available:

- [`1deg_jra55do_ryf`](https://github.com/COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6/tree/1deg_jra55do_ryf)

> Note that the [`main`](https://github.com/COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6/tree/main) branch
> does not store any configuration, only some documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note that the [`main`](https://github.com/COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6/tree/main) branch
does not store any configuration, only some documentation.**
```

This repository also contains the following configurations that are only used
for testing ACCESS-OM3:

- [`gmom_jra`](https://github.com/COSIMA/MOM6-CICE6/tree/gmom_jra):
  configuration based on the `GMOM_JRA` [CESM](https://github.com/ESCOMP/CMEPS/)
  compset.

These configurations should **not** be used for production runs.

## Setting up an experiment

The first thing to do is to clone this repository. Although it is possible to
directly clone the repository from the [COSIMA
organization](https://github.com/COSIMA/), it is better to use a fork
instead. This will allow you to push any changes you make to the configuration,
as well as use the payu run log to keep track of your experiment in your fork on
GitHub. Detailed instructions about how to set up a fork can be found
[here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo).

> Once you have set up your fork, we recommend cloning to a directory with an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have set up your fork, we recommend cloning to a directory with a
```

unique name that reflects what you wish to run. This could simply be the name of
the configuration you plan to run, but the more detailed the name is, the less
likely a namespace clash will happen.

Finally, one needs to checkout the branch corresponding to the desired

> configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configuration. It is then good practice to start a new branch with the same name as your directory so you can use git to easily see how your run configuration differs from the original.
```

Here is an step-by-step example of how to set up a `1deg_jra55do_ryf` experiment

> after setting up your fork:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(called `my_1deg_jra55do_ryf_experiment_name`) after setting up your fork:
```

```bash

> $ git clone git@github.com:<username>/MOM6-CICE6.git 1deg_jra55do_ryf
> $ cd 1deg_jra55do_ryf
> $ git checkout 1deg_jra55do_ryf

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ git clone git@github.com:<username>/MOM6-CICE6.git my_1deg_jra55do_ryf_experiment_name
$ cd my_1deg_jra55do_ryf_experiment_name
$ git checkout 1deg_jra55do_ryf
$ git checkout -b my_1deg_jra55do_ryf_experiment_name
```

```

Here `<username>` should be your GitHub user name.

> By default, the payu run log is turned off, but you probably want to turn this
> on. To do so, one needs to edit the `config.yaml` file and change the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the payu run log is turned off, but you should turn it on so that your 
configuration settings will be recorded as the run proceeds. 
Simply edit the `config.yaml` file and change the following
```

line:

```yaml
runlog: false
```
to
```yaml
runlog: true

> ```

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding this at the end so we can centralise the documentation. The quick start instructions also need to be updated.
```

## Customising your experiment
See [this section of the quick start instructions in the ACCESS-OM3 wiki](https://github.com/COSIMA/access-om3/wiki/Quick-start#customising-your-experiment).

## Running your experiment
See [this section of the quick start instructions in the ACCESS-OM3 wiki](https://github.com/COSIMA/access-om3/wiki/Quick-start#running).

## Pull requests

We welcome contributions from users of these configurations. If you make a configuration improvement which you think should be included in the COSIMA repository, push it to your fork and then do a pull request from the relevant branch in your fork to the branch it originated from in the COSIMA repository (not `main`).
```
